Alan Pentz (00:00)
Six factors. can, I think you should say something like, so we have this new assessment report and talk to us about like what it looks at something like that. All right. Cool. All right. We are back with the small business black holes podcast. I'm back with a lovely Tanya Barron. So now are you done?

Tonya Berenson (00:09)
Mm-hmm.

Freedom.

I'm good, I'm good. I'm doing well, I should say. Yes. Yes. Exactly. Let's get back to our grammar. right. How are you, Alan? It's been a few weeks.

Alan Pentz (00:24)
doing well, because you feel good and you're doing well.

That's right. That's right. I'm

great. Yeah, I had the flu for a little while. Everybody in my family, but we're all back in the hole again. So it's That's right. Influence of B racked the house. So what are we talking about today?

Tonya Berenson (00:40)
Yeah, you survived it, huh? The flu.

Well, I wanted to ask you about the owner's assessment that you have been developing and have up that people can take. And I wanted to ask you a few things about that. Tell us what's in it, what it tells owners about their business that will take them through your journey. Yeah, I mean, it's OK to do a little commercial.

Alan Pentz (01:07)
Cool. A little commercial, a little commercial for me. Yeah,

so I've been working on, developed a assessment. Right now it's called the business maturity assessment. I'm probably going to change that name at some point, but it's looking at, in the methodology I'm trying to do around owner independence, look at six key factors.

Tonya Berenson (01:22)
Yeah.

Mm-hmm.

Alan Pentz (01:36)
And this is what the company's really going to focus on going forward is, you know, I think one differentiating thing I always look at is like, what's the personal vision of the owner? So most people don't look at that. And I think it's really important because there's a lot of trade-offs in running a business. So I think you can get a business to a certain level. So you get it to two, three million, even five million.

And you kind of stabilize there. and you can make quite a bit of money if you optimize at that level. and it's, you know, you can make a good living. You can get your role to a certain point, certain levels of independence where you're not key to everything and have a pretty good life. And, people would call that a lifestyle business, which is sort of a pejorative term from Silicon Valley, but I think it's great. Lifestyle is awesome.

So if have a lifestyle with a million dollars in EBITDA, I feel good. What do we say?

Tonya Berenson (02:34)
This means, right?

Work-life balance. You have that at that stage.

Alan Pentz (02:41)
Yeah. Yeah.

Yeah. So, you know, lot of we, we say a lot that we want most, most literature out there comes from venture capital or big publicly traded companies. So, uh, you know, the shareholders at AT &T really don't care about the lifestyle work-life balance of the CEO. Right. So they really don't. So they want you to optimize the business for.

Tonya Berenson (03:04)
We don't.

Alan Pentz (03:09)
dividends or whatever it is they bought the stock for, right? And VCs are investors. They want their return. So they're obviously going to emphasize optimization of growth and valuation. And an owner doesn't have that same as the stockholder, right? They don't have the same incentive structure and don't need to. And so I think they should really take seriously the choices they have in front of them to

know, growth is tough, right? So I talk a lot about small business black holes where people get stuck and the fault is on the owner, right? Because the owner isn't making the tough decisions. They're not investing. know, usually it's, they're not firing the people that been there for a long time that are blockers. They're not willing to take the risk of hiring someone who's a little more expensive and more experienced and they won't make the other investments in the business they need to. That's why it doesn't grow, right? Plus they're not willing to maybe do the work.

that they need to do to get to the next level. So being a black hole is a perception, right? So in my sense, black hole is you're stuck in it. If you're trying to grow, it's a black hole. If you're trying to live your life, it's like a lovely sunny meadow, right? know? So that's to me and like this last couple of weeks, I did some interviews with a marketing agency owners.

Tonya Berenson (04:21)
Great! Great! Yeah, being at the beach.

Alan Pentz (04:33)
And it was really interesting that two or three of them even started talking about how they have multiple agencies. I started saying, why have three? What's the point of starting new organizations? And I think their sense was in addition to focus of the service. So like one's LinkedIn marketing and others Google ads, right, or whatever. So that allows them to focus to a certain extent, but

They also talked about how getting to a few million, a couple million in revenue is a lot easier than growing an agency from two to three million in revenue to 10 because of these black holes and you have to bring in more management. You have to pay them a lot more and your costs go up and the risks go up.

Tonya Berenson (05:21)
Yeah, you've written about them in the past couple of weeks in the newsletter, which I'm sure some folks listening have read them.

Alan Pentz (05:25)
Yeah.

Yeah. So it's really, it's interesting

to me that they've made this choice, right? That they want the lifestyle. They want the less risk. They want the money, right? That comes from that. They want the less risk and the less, and the other things that come with that. They're still ambitious, but what they're trading off is the valuation. Right? So if you grow a company to 10, 20, 30 million.

Tonya Berenson (05:33)
Yeah.

Alan Pentz (05:58)
you have a lot more EBITDA under it, the multiple you're going to get on that is a lot higher. I mean, it's just easier for somebody else to buy a larger thing. They have to do the same due diligence on a $2 million company as they have to on a $100 million company. they want to buy in chunks. if you have three or four agencies that are all separate, it doesn't equal one big thing. And so what they're doing, it's also interesting that they're all a little young.

I think that what they're doing is, Hey, well, I don't think they're in any way thinking about selling at this point. So I think they're setting this up in a way that really optimizes cashflow. They're also ADHD entrepreneurs, right? So they're trying to, they they love starting stuff, right. And they don't love managing big teams and stuff like that. So I think that's part of it, which is where you naturally go. But you know, when you're younger, it's like, Hey, I'm making really good money. What do I care?

Tonya Berenson (06:31)
was like being a little younger.

Alan Pentz (06:58)
what the valuation of the company is. When you're a little older, in your 50s, like me, you start thinking about that, right? So someday we're gonna have to sell it. So I think there's some of that there. But it's really important to understand that personal vision the owner has. And to be honest, that vision will change over time. We know that. That's fine, but just know where it is now, and then regularly check in on it. So we try to keep people regularly looking at that, and we take you through a series of...

Tonya Berenson (07:01)
and start thinking about that.

Alan Pentz (07:26)
Well, so we assess where the level of your vision is. And then we've set up a series of exercises to help you elicit. What is it I really want? Like, what do I want my life to be like? What do I dream, you know, in the future about? I said that, I think I talked on the podcast a while ago about Chico, my alter ego who lives in Miami, you know, what is Chico going to tell me? and then, you know, looking at things like what kind of, what's your number, right? Like.

Tonya Berenson (07:29)
where you are.

Well,

Alan Pentz (07:56)
what amount of money would produce the, you know, say you, you get 10, 15 million in as a chunk that you, you invest that in diversified portfolio, except for like the last couple of weeks, it will produce, um, you know, a certain amount of income every year. And so once that there's something called the 4 % rule where the thought is that if you invest in a diversified portfolio, you can consume 4 % of the income.

or of the total every year and the portfolio will grow enough that it's almost impossible you run out of money. So it's something in the investment world that investment management world, they've sort of got sort of got developed. I actually don't know who came up with it, but they run these Monte Carlo simulations where it's like every outcome based on the history of the stock market. And they show it like 95, 99 percent certainty that you can never run out of money.

So like what's that number for you at 4 %? You know some people it's like 500k, right? So divide that by 0.04 and that's the nut you need to have to get 500k in revenue or you know income here

Tonya Berenson (08:56)
Okay.

Could be an example

of one of the questions or the exercises that are part of the essay.

Alan Pentz (09:13)
Yeah. And that number,

it's the amazing math of people that as soon as you approach that number, the number goes up. You're like, but I could also have this house in Jackson Hole or on the beach or whatever it is for you. Right. what's up?

Tonya Berenson (09:23)
Of course.

And since we're, you know,

now I was just going to say, they're thinking, since we're dreaming about this, what is it that I'd really like? I mean, that's part of the value, right?

Alan Pentz (09:41)
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.

And I think there's a certain amount where people just naturally want more than they currently have. It's, it's inevitable. So I think you got to know that, but it's good to know at least have like a number in your head. Like if I say I want $500,000 a year in income, that's a, you know, it's a nice living in most places. Right. And.

Tonya Berenson (09:51)
Mm-hmm.

Alan Pentz (10:10)
I mean, more than nice. I mean, guess if you live in Manhattan, it's like below average or something. But in most parts of the world, you're in the top couple percent of the income ladder. And that's 12 and a half million. And like a diversified portfolio will produce that income. So for some people, that'll be their number. It'll be 15 and 600,000, right?

Tonya Berenson (10:15)
So much, right? Not so much.

Alan Pentz (10:40)
Um, but the point is to help you think through, Hey, look, if I have 15 million and I could get $600,000 a year without working, that's, and that covers everything I could imagine. want, why am I taking any more risk? Why am I working harder? Like it's, it's not the answer doesn't need to be, Oh, I should just stop. You know, it can be.

Tonya Berenson (10:58)
Mm.

What could it be?

Alan Pentz (11:07)
Yeah, it could be like, I just like doing it or I want more. But you should check with yourself. And it's sort of a mental help. I read this thing one time. If you go into a negotiation to sell your business, write down the number you want and put it in a drawer before you start. Because you're going to get into the negotiation and you're going to start arguing with the other person. You're going to want to win the argument.

Tonya Berenson (11:35)
No matter what.

Alan Pentz (11:37)
No matter what. at

Tonya Berenson (11:37)
Right? Right.

Alan Pentz (11:38)
one, at some point you might be arguing for more. You might be like threatening the deal, trying to get a million dollars more. And if you open the drawer and looked at the number, it's above it, way above it. And like, what are you arguing about at that point? Right. So I think that these are just devices to check ourselves and be like, Hey, sometimes we do stuff just because we want to win. And maybe we're, we're kind of.

I'm subverting all our other desires just by trying to win in this moment. you know, I think that happens in business. It's like, I don't want to, you know, I'm here, I'm doing my thing and I want to win. want to win. I don't want to. And then you look down and you're like, Oh, I said I only wanted $600,000 a year. And now I'm like working 80 hours a week to try to get a million.

Tonya Berenson (12:26)
The winning might not always align with your goals, with your actual, true goals, right? What is the balance that you want?

Alan Pentz (12:33)
So the first thing

we want to do is really tighten that up and say, are you after here? Are you trying to create a high growth company? Do you understand the implications of that? It's going to be less money. You're going to have to invest more money. You're to have to deal with more BS with firing people and bringing in new people. You're going have to be ruthless, I said. Or am I happy with my life now, but I understand the trade off that I'm not going to grow.

Tonya Berenson (12:41)
Yes.

Mm-hmm.

You're have to be ruthless.

Mm-hmm.

Alan Pentz (13:03)
So that's the first thing, because the business strategy can't be done until we know what the owner or owners are after. And it's amazing how few people actually have thought about that beyond, you know, they play with some ideas.

Tonya Berenson (13:15)
That's what's surprising to me.

So you have so much experience doing this, but I mean you have seen that people just don't think about that when they get into this.

Alan Pentz (13:25)
No, because they're, I mean, they think about it from time to time, but they don't think about it systematically. They're just like, that sounds good. That sounds good. yeah. Yeah. I like. Right. I like, well, it's like, they kind of think about everything together. So it's like, Hey, I would love to have a $50 million company that spat out $10 million a year in EBITDA and I don't work. That would be awesome.

Tonya Berenson (13:34)
I like that. I like the idea of a lot of money in no time.

Right.

Alan Pentz (13:52)
But like,

okay, so everybody would like that, but there are going to be trade-offs to getting there. And are you willing to take them? Maybe you don't go to your kids' sporting events for five years. Is that worth it to you? Or maybe you don't take as big vacations now while your kids are at home, but you're going to have so much money when they're gone. Like, okay, is that worth it to you? Right. So, you know, it's not that people don't dream and stuff, but they don't systematically think through the trade-offs and come up with like, oh no, I traded off this for that.

Tonya Berenson (14:02)
Mm-hmm.

that worth it?

Alan Pentz (14:23)
And there's no judgment on what it is that you're going to do. It's just more like, have you thought through it and have you made the trade off decision?

Tonya Berenson (14:32)
And this is an are you in it? Excuse me, are you in it? Knowing what you're going to what you're getting into, right?

Alan Pentz (14:39)
Yeah,

exactly. Exactly. Or like, you know, it's like people talking about doing M &A. It's like, want to go buy other companies. Well, do you know what that's like? I mean, it is a freaking nightmare. It's like you got all these crazy owners like you who are selling their only asset and you're going to have to go deal with them. They're going to be late night calls and they're going to be things that happened at the last. mean, you're going to stress level is going to be here and then you're going to buy it. It's not going to do as well as it's supposed to. Blah, blah, blah, blah. Right.

Tonya Berenson (14:49)
Yeah, thank you.

Yeah.

Alan Pentz (15:06)
But

if you're willing to take that pain and it's really, or you're like into that, you know, there's sadomasochists out there, right? So, you can get good at it and do really well over time, but you got to want to take the pain and like, you got to understand that trade on most people just kind of go do it. And then they're in the middle of it, like, this sucks. Right? So understand. Exactly. I would say that's exactly what they're saying.

Tonya Berenson (15:31)
to why did I do this? What did I get myself into? Yeah, it's such a novel idea.

I think it's really cool. And it's already, people can already take it, right? Not on the website, but.

Alan Pentz (15:38)
Yeah

Yeah. So can go to the website

owner. Yeah, I know it'll be on the website when this comes out. I'm putting it up today. Ownerinstitute.com and just there'll be a big red button that says take the assessment. And it's in the newsletter. I'll put it in as an ad every week. Yeah. So we, so we start with that personal vision. Then we go into the business strategy. Okay. Do you have like, is your business model working? Right. This is another thing that I think I've really put a lot of time into.

Tonya Berenson (15:45)
It will be.

Alan Pentz (16:11)
is there's a lot of literature out there on business model. Like how can you get subscription revenue? How can you get payment terms to be better? How can you get your gross margin up? How blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You know, are you delivering with software and automation versus offshore or this or that, right? And so what I'm trying to do is give owners a set of exercises to help them think through their business model. like a lot of this is like, like I, do.

my one company does work with the government. There's only so much payment term stuff we're going to be able to do so that that's not really going to be available to us, right? But there are going to be other things that are available to us. So we could pull the library on, right? And so, you know, helping owners not completely re-architect their business model, but like, are there tweaks you can do? And some people will want to re-architect. So here are the best ways. Here are all the main ways that people have seen how to

how to shore up their business and make it better and make it more valuable. So we have a section on that and strategy. think that's another distinguisher, know, your values and all that, you know, how, how you're looking at the behaviors you want in the business and you want to see from employees and how you hire and fire based on those behaviors, that's your values, right? And that, you know, there's all the other stuff around it, like, which do you have quarterly, yearly planning?

Do you, um, uh, and do you have that shared across the company? And then you go into, you know, the four functions of business sales and marketing. What's your level of confidence and, and standardization of that and, know, operations, once you sell something, how well do you deliver it? Are you doing customer service? Do you have customer satisfaction in place? And then, um, you know, your team, you know, are you upgrading and monitoring your team and training them and all?

that kind of stuff, onboarding them while hiring well. And then lastly, finance and are you measuring what you're getting out of the company? Have you optimized your pricing? Have you done that? You're blah, blah. And are you looking at a monthly, at least a monthly like dashboard of how the business is doing? So basically we're rating you across those six factors. And the goal for me is that's a lot of stuff, right?

Tonya Berenson (18:33)
That's what

I would say as you're running through it. It's a lot, but to have it all in the one place, right?

Alan Pentz (18:36)
a lot.

Right. So it's good to like take a look across, right? And say, where am I strong? Where am I weak? That's where we start. And really the goal is what's the weakest area that's the biggest thing that you got to attack. Right. So like what it, you know, when I'm talking, yeah. And I'm talking to a lot of owners who are in a black hole, right. Or dissatisfied with something. So they're going to present, Hey, finances aren't working or my marketing isn't working. I'm not getting enough leads or I'm not closing the leads I have or.

Tonya Berenson (18:42)
Okay.

First human.

Alan Pentz (19:08)
I've got a lot of times it's like, got people I'm getting work in, but all these things are all these balls are falling through the cracks and like what, you know, so I got a team and operations problem. but the point is like most planning philosophies will go in and try to go top down. Like, let's start with the strategy, blah, blah, blah, blah. I try to say, Hey, look, we definitely need your personal vision because nothing else matters really.

Tonya Berenson (19:14)
Mm-hmm.

Alan Pentz (19:37)
until we know what you want. But then let's start with the pain. Right? So if you're presenting that finances are the pain, let's not worry about your sales and marketing process right now. Let's worry about finance first. And so the idea in Owner Institute is to tailor it to where the business is. And then eventually, you know, we have our methodology will take you through all the other stuff over time. But why focus on business strategy and sales and marketing if the problem is your team?

Tonya Berenson (19:42)
Thank you.

Alan Pentz (20:08)
So that's sort of the philosophy behind. And so you can take the assessments free. You take it. I offer a follow-up call with me, talk through like your specific results. And what we'll kind of do is pull out, we'll score you across all six. And then we pull out your best one. We always look at your personal vision, because again, I think it's the most important. But we'll pull out your best score and say, hey, look, this is great. Hopefully it's great. You're doing well.

Tonya Berenson (20:32)
You're doing well in this area. your finances are great,

imagine, or something. Yeah. Good job.

Alan Pentz (20:36)
Let's give you a little pat on the back and say, good, good job.

Right. But maybe you don't want to spend as much time there anymore because that's doing well. And then here's your low score. So like, this is what we should attack. And we have some, you know, initial idea of how you can do that. I mean, obviously assessment can only get you so far, but then I do like a little half hour call afterwards and just kind of focus on that and say, okay, here's some ideas for what you can do. And obviously you can work with us if you want, you know, to work on those areas.

Tonya Berenson (21:02)
Thank

Alan Pentz (21:05)
and we offer coaching services and, you know, we help you go through the planning methodology we have, and then we get you to like a monthly dashboard where you're making sure you're looking at all your key KPIs across, you know, people, marketing, sales, you know, finance, the whole, whole bit operations. and so that's our service, but, know, in general, it's like, Hey, I can give you a half hour. Here's what I would do.

you my take on it and then you can do what you want with it. You don't need to work with us. um, anyway, so that's up there for people and, highly encourage you to take it ownerinstitute.com. Yeah, it's six, six to eight minutes. Yeah. Less than 10 minutes. Yeah. Probably six to eight minutes to get the answers. And we give you a little customized report that comes, you know, right in your inbox, like a minute later. So it's pretty cool. Yeah. I like it. and if you take it.

Tonya Berenson (21:44)
And how long does it take? It's short too, right, Alan? It's quick, like 10 minutes or something.

Yeah, it sounds, it's really cool. mean, where I don't think

there's nothing else out there.

Alan Pentz (22:03)
Yeah, I'd love to.

Yeah, I haven't seen anything like that. But yeah, and I'd love feedback on the report too. If people take it and they're like, I like this and didn't like that. That's cool too. I'd love to hear that. You can always reach me at Alan at ownerinstitute.com. Cool. Well, I think that's a good overview of the new assessment and report. Excellent.

Tonya Berenson (22:07)
At least, yeah.

That sounds great.

Yeah, rolling it out. And

you said it'll be up soon on the website. So it's exciting. It's exciting, Alan.

Alan Pentz (22:32)
Yeah. By the time this is a cool.

Awesome. All right. We'll talk soon. Okay. Yeah, we're going to talk. Now we're going to do a separate episode on play business planning and how it takes to, so people do like these two day quarter, two day annual meetings, all day quarterlies. And I'm trying to get it down to a few hours each. because I think it's just too big a left and,

Tonya Berenson (22:38)
Did you want to talk about anything else?

Alan Pentz (23:02)
It keeps most people from doing discipline planning because it's just like so much time. So like we're trying to package it so you can do your quarterly in a couple hours and maybe your annual and a half day, four hours or something like that.

Tonya Berenson (23:18)
Can you

step back just a second and just give it just in case somebody isn't aware of like what?

Alan Pentz (23:22)
Yeah, so let's

go. Let's all start it as an episode and then we'll and then I'll say, hey, what are we talking about today? Cool. Actually, you know what? Let me let me stop this recording and I'll just do another one.

Tonya Berenson (23:29)
Okay, I thought we were just still.

Okay.

